1. During an IT control review to support a financial statement audit, users of the general ledger (GL) complained to the IS auditor about the considerable delay in accessing data. The MOST appropriate action for the IS auditor is to
note the delay as a control deficiency that could be improved
recommend the use of load balancing to improve throughput
include complaints in the management letter
exclude complaints from an audit opinion about the IT controls

Understanding the root-cause of response-time issues is out of scope in the current audit. The impact of IT controls on the integrity of financial statements is the primary objective of audit, and thus, operational issues with the database should not be the primary focus of audit opinion. 


3. Which of these is the most effective control over a guest wireless ID given to the vendor staff?
Assignment of a renewable user ID which expires daily
A write-once log to monitor the vendor's activities on the system
Utilization of a user ID format similar to that used by employees
Ensuring that wireless network encryption is configured properly

A renewable user ID which expires daily would be a good control since it would ensure that wireless access is not used without authorization. While it is recommended to monitor vendor activities while vendor staff are on the system, this is a detective control and thus is not as strong as a preventive control. 

13. The CISA should review which of the below to gain an understanding of organization's effectiveness in terms of planning and management of IT investments?
enterprise data model
IT balanced scorecard
IT organizational structure
historical financial statements

Explanations:
The IT Balanced Scorecard is a device that offers the connection between IT objectives and business objectives by supplementing financial assessments with measures of customer satisfaction, internal processes and the ability to innovate. 

17. A CISA who is testing employee access to a large financial system selects a sample from the current employee list. Which among these is the most reliable evidence to support the test?
A spreadsheet provided by the system administrator
Human resources (HR) documents signed by employees' managers
A list of accounts with access levels generated by the system
Observations performed onsite in the presence of a system administrator

Explanations:
The access list generated by the system is the most dependable because it is the most impartial evidence to execute a comparison against the samples selected. 

19. An IS auditor is reviewing the process performed for the protection of digital evidence. Which of the following findings should present the MOST concern to the IS auditor?
The owner of the system was not present at the time of the evidence retrieval
The system was powered off by an investigator
There are no documented logs of the transportation of evidence
The contents of the random access memory (RAM) were not backed up

Explanations:
The evidence should be handled properly without modifying it physically or logically.

21. A CISA detects that a corrective action is taken by an auditee instantly after a finding mentioned in the audit report. What should be the CISA's next step?
include the finding in the final report to ensure accuracy of findings
exclude the finding in the final report as it is already resolved
exclude the finding in the final report as corrective action can be verified
include all the finding in the closing meeting for information and not in report

Explanations:
All findings must be included in the final report and is a generally accepted audit practice. All other choices are incorrect.

23. A CISA has been asked to review a Purchase Order system. Which sampling method could be used to verify whether purchase orders issued to vendors have been authorized as per the authorization list?
Attribute sampling
Variable sampling
Preventive control
Unstratified mean per unit

Explanations:
Attribute sampling is used for compliance testing and therefore the attribute of whether each purchase order was correctly authorized would be used to determine compliance with the authorization list control.

24. Which of the given entities can initiate a change request in a process?
End users
Testing team
Development team
All of the above

Explanations:
Any of the given entities can request changes to a development system. But change control must be monitored and approved, and a risk assessment should be made before the change is implemented.


